
Learn about the FLOW algorithm
(Code up the flow algorithm in Matlab or something)
(Read about MERIT Hydro)
Download MERIT Hydro data
Use MERIT Hydro to delineate IRB and flow directions, etc.
Check MERIT Hydro flow directions with the Matlab toolkit
Try running the routing model with MERIT Hydro flow directions
Write report and send to SM and DL

Publish flow direction corrections toolkit
Learn to use Github pages
Make a plan for the FDCT documentation site
Make a Github pages documentation site for it
Share with colleagues on the SWOT blog, File Exchange, etc.

pkgdown is good for generating Github pages for your R packages.
See https://pkgdown.r-lib.org. This is what Mark Hagemann used to make the documentation website for bamr.


===FDT===

Hydrologic routing models require flow direction data to route spatially-distributed runoff through river channels to the basin outlet. However, the spatial resolution of the routing model is generally much coarser than the DEM used to generate the flow direction map. Upscaling the DEM or the flow direction map introduces error in the river network and basin area. Thus, hydrologic modelers have to make manual corrections to the flow direction map before using the routing model. FDT is a Matlab toolbox designed to make manual correction of flow direction maps relatively pain-free.

Thought: why not just spatially interpolate the runoff so that it is at the same resolution as the high resolution flow direction map? One reason could be computational expense and another reason could be that VIC 4.2 is not set up to do this (easily). This might actually be a good approach because it does not require any upscaling nor manual correction.

Need to develop and test a method for automatically adjusting the flow direction map based on the true river network. First step is to determine the flow direction in the river network cells. Second step is to change the flow directions in the map to match those of the river network. Third step is to ensure that there have not been any loops introduced. If there are loops introduced, allow the user to fix them manually or correct them automatically. Constrained optimization problem. Match the river network as best as possible, but don't have any loops.

Demonstrate how FDT finds cells flowing off the edge of the domain
Demonstrate how FDT finds cells that flow into one another or a larger loop
Demonstrate how FDT determines the flow direction of a particular pixel based on the input river network
Demonstrate a flow routing example using the results of FDT to adapt an erroneous flow direction file

Upper Mississippi River Basin might be a good test case for FDT.

===MERIT DEM at 1/16 degree resolution===

===MERIT DEM at 30 arc-second resolution===




